<!--
 * @Date: 2022-07-22 18:01:46
 * @LastEditors: Juan Jiang
 * @LastEditTime: 2022-07-31 10:37:25
 * @FilePath: \learning-fragments\ielts\口语.md
-->
to tick all the boxes = to meet all the requirements
listen up 注意听
look out 留神 注意
all the rage = very fashionable
Besides = on top of 
be bound to 一定是
### Collecting things

Yes, i'm so into collecting things and it is growing on me.
You know the feeling of collecting your favourite things day by day is very satisfying which can reduce my stress and recharge my batteries. Plus I think the collections can tell you a lot about the owner's characters.

No, to be honest, I'm not really into collecting things. But I remember that I used to collect lots of puzzles and spend loadss of time on them. But I just didn't find it interesting anymore.

No, I don't collect things. In fact I think collecting too much things is a waste of time. Instead, I prefer sorting out the things that I should discard to make life easier.

### Free time

Leisure activities 
Hobbies
Pastimes

1. indoor activities  playing games,reading, watching short videos,Films, Chilling out,hanging out with friends, etc.
2. Outdoor activities  playing football,jogging, gardening, swimming, travelling, going shopping, etc.
3. Collecting things Stamps, Coins, NFT(Non-fungible token)
4. creating activities  playing a musical instrument, painting, knitting, handcrafting, etc.

What do you do at your free time? 
I get up to a lot of things at my free time. to get up to sth = to do something  like to do(也可以表示一种习惯或是选择) I like to do yoga on Thursdays.
I am fond of 
I'm into 
I'm passionate about

表示略有涉猎 to dabble in  = to do someting casually, less seriously
I like to dabble in cooking 
I sometimes dabble in painting
Last week I dabbled in NFTs.

I play the guitar, but I am just an aficionado. I play the guitar for fun. I play the guitar but I am just an amateur.

How often do you do ?
often regularly frequently 
whenever I can , as often as I can, whenever I get a chance

I don't paint as much as I would like.
I don't get round to painting as much as I would like.

时态 
I paint
I recently took up painting. to take up a hobby = to start a hobby

I decided to have a go at painting.  to have a go at something = to try something new
I decided to try my hand at painting. to try my hand at something = to try something new

I've been playing football **for as loog as I can remember**.
I've been playing table tennis **for donkey's years**. for donkey's years = for a long time

Benifits of hobbies

relax , stay healthy ,socialize
It just helps me unwind/kick back/chill out.
I find that it helps me (get into shape/keep fit/stay in shape).
It allows me to just (hang out/meet up/chill out) with friends.

It's a quite nice way to get close to nature.
It has a calming effect.
It's really therapeutic.
It's a great stress buster.  24 7 (全天候)

### Family

I come from a small family. I was an only child. I was one of five siblings.
There was a lot of sibling rivalry in my family. sibling rivalry  =  brothers/sisters competing

There are 3 of us in my family. nuclear family , extended family 
My brother and I are **like 2 peas in a pod**. 形容非常相似
My brother and I are **like chalk and cheese**. 形容完全不同
We have our **ups and downs**. 有时相处的好 有时不好
We don't always **see eye to eye**. 有一致的看法 
to fall out =  to argue and no longer talk
to make up  =  to become friends again
to have your differences = to have disagreements
Sometimes, we fall out but then we make up.
We are a close family. We are a tight knit family.
My family is everyting to me.
to love somebody to bits.
My family mean the world to me.

As a parent, I try not to be **overprotective**.  过度保护
I don't want to **spoil** my children. 宠坏
I try not to **spoon feed** them. 填鸭式教育

look like 看上去像
be the spitting image of sb  几乎是一模一样的人
to take after = to have the same personality as your parents
My parents brought me up with good values. to bring up a child  =  to educate and raise a child
As for my Dad, I don't see a lot of him. to pass away = to die

It was love at first sight. I fell for her instantly.
we just clicked. to click =  to get on well

We have grown to love each other over time.
We have grown  closer and closer over the years.

Blood is thicker than water. = family is more important than friends